This is going to be an heavy thread. Read at your own discretion.

I'm firmly against good as moral imperative. One of the worst things you could possibly do is doing good just because it's "the right thing to do", and I'm not kidding.

Yes, there's much pointless and horrible cruelty going on in the world, but I see so much of it being done in the name of what is Right, or knowing "what's good for you", or acting in the name of a Greater Good.

Countless horrors have been inflicted on humanity from the idea of acting in the name of Good. Countless wars have been fought for a "greater good." For the Greater Good, we devised, built, and exploded several atomic bombs. In the name of a greater good we have killed millions, if not billions.

The road to Hell is paved with good intentions.

And in the name of doing Good, people have silenced their inner compass, acted against their own better judgment, and inflicted boundless violence, small and big, to themselves and those surrounding them, fractally throughout life.

How could this possibly be happening? It happens when we disconnect from our true source of right action—our body, our heart—and try and supplant it with morality, with ideology, with trying to emulate someone else.

https://twitter.com/MckennaForum/status/573544062206152704
> I think ideology is poisonous.  We are not trying to figure out the 'best thing to believe'


It happens when we lose track of the fact that Good is not an absolute ideal for us to pursue, but just a point on an axis of the space where we play.

https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1609255568577028096
> From this results that for life to exclusively pursue an absolute is an ontological error. Life doesn't move towards absolute good. It doesn't all move towards the light. Life always dances inbetween any extremes because it IS MADE OF the movement between extremes.


When you act from an idea of Good instead of your felt perception of the moment:
- you perpetuate the dissociation from your actual source of proper judgment and action, your body;
- it leaves you with that off-putting feeling of dissatisfaction, or worse;
- it perpetuates an inauthentic world of empty niceties and unsincere behaviour;
- it beats you over the head with your innate inadequacy, that you have to rely on external punishment to be Good;
- it perpetuates the idea that external morality is required, for you and others. It maintains the prison of dependence from morality.

Acting in the name of an imposed morality reinforces the narrative that you and others need an imposed morality to live properly. And we've lived for centuries now under this assumption, and the results are horrifying to look at.

From the callousness of abusive parents who "just know what's good for the kids", to door-to-door bible salesmen, to a police force that feels morally justified in oppressing those that they have sworn to protect just because they're the police and what the police does is Right,

to everyone's small acts of daily suicide when they act out someone else's script instead of their own, because they've been taught that way, or because they fear shame, because they fear punishment.

By acting from extrinsic motivation we smother our intrinsic drives. By acting as if we can't be relied on to just intrinsically care about doing the right thing, we murder our spontaneity and our innate generosity.

We have names for people who are chronically Trying To Be Good. There's the toxic positivity bunch. There's the "love and light" spiritual crowd. There's the "nice guys." And they are people in the throes of a pathology because the whole apparatus is a pathology.

When you act in the name of an Absolute, or following someone else's precepts, and because of that you supprsess your own inner wisdom, your own feedback system, in that moment you are killing yourself. And that goes for anyone else's precepts, even if everyone thinks they're good. It could be from Jesus, I don't care.

Just putting "it's the right thing to do" as the reason to do things shuts you out of any objection, including those of your body. If you feel bad about it, it was "the good thing to do" anyway. You've blown up the bridge connecting you to your best source of feedback.
https://twitter.com/the_wilderless/status/1614265967361523712
> Beware habits of mind that make you feel righteous for being miserable


Each time you decide to act for the sake of goodness, you sacrifice a moment, and an action, away from acting from your own true calling, your own felt understanding, your own personal purpose. We contain our own innate generosity and we smother it under the idea that we should be something that we're currently not.
https://twitter.com/FamousMindQuote/status/953220917018099713
> Being generous is inborn; being altruistic is a learned perversity. No resemblance.

Acting for the sake of Good perpetuates empty gestures and meaningless pleasantries. It robs people of authenticity because they don't act from their own felt desire and will and love anymore, but just an idea of what they should do, that they got from someone else.

No single value can be our sole ideal; we are multifaceted, dynamic creatures living a multifaceted, dynamic life that is all about figuring out things in the moment.
https://twitter.com/UrsulaBot/status/1614120308843347969 
> Do nothing because it is righteous or praiseworthy or noble to do so; do nothing because it seems good to do so; do only that which you must do and which you cannot do in any other way.
- Ursula Le guin

Morality is the tomb of right action. Morality is other people telling you what they could never know, which is what you are intimately called to do in each singular, personal moment.

https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1600113101407297537?s=20&t=gqGJ9iuTYSxWcB7xL5P0GA
> The only compass you can rely on in life, is a purified you. If you depend on someone else's ethical framework, you have lost the way. If you rely on someone else's idea of what is good, or good for them, you have lost the way. If you don't care, you have lost the way.


What society calls Good Behaviour is also just a part of the spectrum of human behaviour. When we cut off behaviour that is not deemed Good from ourselves, we grow a stagnant and pathologic Shadow. We repress anger because anger is not Good, and that anger starts killing us from the inside.
https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1612803537775329283
> Anger is a powerful energy. Terrifying, it handled improperly. And the first way to handle it improperly is to disown it, to refuse it, to not see it as the noble carrier of change that it is.

We repress judgment because judgment is not Good, we shun forceful action because it is not Good, and end up perpetuating toxic situations past due date, and acquiescing in the face of abuse; out of fear of ruffling feathers, any bad situation remains such.

The takeaway from Jesus is not that we should be Good, or meek, but rather we should follow in his footsteps of self-realization by realizing OUR OWN self. Jesus wasn't acting from a playbook on how to be Good. He wrecked people's shit when angry.

Jesus did all he did purely because he cared. Because of the love he felt. And he played his own personal calling to the hilt, because that's what his Spirit, his god, asked of him, just like our Spirit, our own personal god, asks of each of us.

Jesus was simply a guy that intimately knew what he was about, and did that. And, he was also a very particular type of guy, that very few people are called to emulate (as it can be observed in the numbers of people trying to be spiritual leaders vs. people actually worthy of such).

When you feel you're not living up to Jesus, is because the fundamental difference is that Jesus was acting out of his innate wisdom, his innate caring, his innate love, while you're trying to just go by someone else's model. You're trying to find your own house by tailing someone else who doesn't live there.

Predictably, since it wasn't addressed, this pattern judgmental moralization has been transferred wholesale in the cultural transference of the Rational Enlightenment. The God-worshipping loons were unseated, but still people kept the idea of searching for an external, objective morality, just somewhere else.

Morality has been the desperate refuge of people who have lost connection with their own body, and have retreated in their own head. Lost connection with their own innate goodness, they have desperately sought it outside themselves, building a crude aping of it, an "objective goodness". Keeping with the tradition of asking "imperfect" people to be "perfect".

From the idea of right action being obvious because everyone has their own innate, felt sense of right and wrong, this twisted into right action being *theoretically* obvious because there's a shared, objective Code of Conduct that everyone should follow. As soon as we find the right one, in any case. Any moment now.

As Alan Watts explains, you cannot teach someone to be unselfish, because in that framework, people would be acting unselfishingly for reasons that are not innately unselfish, and thus selfish. Like wanting to be admired. Or fear of shame, or fear of judgment and punishment.

People needing to be taught unselfishness is a fundamental contradiction. You cannot teach people to be unselfish. You cannot demand of people to be unselfish. Unselfishness can only naturally arise unprompted.

There is nothing you are called to do on this Earth that does not arise from your own caring, your own love, your own innate wisdom. We are already born with all the goodness we need, and not an ounce more.

And yes, a lot of people's inner compass is currently fucked, in no small part thanks to the rampant moralization going around from all sides. A deep and radical cleansing of all this outside programming is required to make space for the small still voice within, our true voice of reason.
https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1600111572952961027
> You'll never ever get to do something that truly satisfies yourself, that is right for you, as long as you'll conform to what other people want from you, or what they think you should do, or what society thinks *good people* should do. None of that is you.

This voice of the heart, of innate understanding of right and wrong, is our voice of conscience. The voice of our Spirit. Everyone has one, and it speaks differently to each of us, because in a play different people play different roles, DUH.

But it is all too easy for the bedlam of a runaway mind to drown out everything else, or for emotional trauma to yank us off-course. A deep purification is required, of body, emotions, and mind, so as to hear our Spirit, our Eros, our Love, our Will loud and clear.
https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1600118120475021312
> The getting there, the finding your true self, is an act of love because it takes time, and patience, and deliberate application, to clean, clean, clean, purify, remove, simplify, reduce, destroy and break apart. The pure you waits under all the garbage and the rubble.

People are personally called to do all kinds of things, including grandiose acts of selfless sacrifice. But if you're not called to it, if you feel you should do it just out of obligation, just out of the judgment of your peers, or the judgment of an old, grumpy man in the sky, then you will be doing it for the wrong reasons, and you will mess up and do damage. And the greatest damage will be when it's not even clear that something wrong happened.

The path of remembering what you actually came here to do, and doing it, can be ardous, but nothing else is asked of us, truly nothing else.



===================
for the greater good is more number go up bs

in the name of doing good you get . 


coming out of christianity for how much bs judgmental it is and yet shedding none of its virality. You must do good, good is a moral imperative 



https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1613829211499765766
> You don't have a duty to distribute, you don't have a duty to solve for distribution.
The only duty you have to the world is to do what your spirit demands of you; from there the rest will take care of itself.

https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1613829253212131328
> And, yeah, of course some of that desire would be to share what you make, but you're not the only one who can do that. It's good of you to keep that in mind.


https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1609255568577028096
From this results that for life to exclusively pursue an absolute is an ontological error. Life doesn't move towards absolute good. It doesn't all move towards the light. Life always dances inbetween any extremes because it IS MADE OF the movement between extremes.

https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1600111572952961027
You'll never ever get to do something that truly satisfies yourself, that is right for you, as long as you'll conform to what other people want from you, or what they think you should do, or what society thinks *good people* should do. None of that is you.

The only compass you can rely on in life, is a purified you. If you depend on someone else's ethical framework, you have lost the way. If you rely on someone else's idea of what is good, or good for them, you have lost the way. If you don't care, you have lost the way.

Until you get to follow, in presence of your entire, clear body and all its desires and disparate intelligences, what excites you and what gives you kicks (your eros), then you're living a quarter-life. You're playing straight poker with two cards in hand.

It's so easy in a climate like this, to forget what you would feel awesome doing, what would give you kicks, because some would think it useless, or evil, or "not for you". Those are the words that kill you.

Expressing your true self is perhaps the most profound and radical act of rebellion. You never bring two compasses out at sea, and if one of those compasses is you, that means you must throw out Every. Single. Other. Source of truth.

Until your life is made of oughts, and shoulds, and moral obligations, and places you're not allowed to look, feelings you're not allowed to feel, things you're not allowed to say or do, it'd be a good idea to keep looking for yourself.







If you look at the first things that come to mind 

Being generous is inborn; being altruistic is a learned perversity. No resemblance. - Robert Heinlein

“If tempted by something that feels “altruistic,” examine your motives and root out that self-deception. Then, if you still want to do it, wallow in it!”
― Robert A. Heinlein, Time Enough for Love

"Every major horror of history was committed in the name of an altruistic motive. Has any act of selfishness ever equalled the carnage perpetrated by disciples of altruism." -Ayn Rand

Do nothing because it is righteous or praiseworthy or noble to do so; do nothing because it seems good to do so; do only that which you must do and which you cannot do in any other way.
- Ursula Le guin https://twitter.com/UrsulaBot/status/1614120308843347969?s=20

doing good for good's sake is something someone else told you

if it's something that you feel would be the most natural thing for you to do, great! if it comes spontaneous to you, great!
But puniishment because you do not conform to this external idea of How You Should Be is exactly what a lot of people who came out of Christianity hate about it. It's the judgmentalness from the perspective of an outside judge using an objective ruler
and this very same mentality has passed on essentially unaltered into rational/illuministic thinking, ending up in moralism going "glad we disposed of those god-worshipping madmen. Now, where is the objective moral judgment framework really hiding?"

MCKENNA QUOTES GO HERE

and it's been a centuries-long futile effort, because it's futile
there is no objective moral framework any more that there is a singular dance steps flowchart

people are different, and they come here with different goals and different ways of reaching those goals

The whole of the law shall be do what you will
do what you truly desire doing. Do what you intend to do.
[insert just do it here?]

Love is the law




It’s pretty simple, the ethical life. It’s just demanding, many of you have heard me say this, this is my…this is “father Mckenna” talking to you.
The moral life does not consist of wheatgrass diet or affirmation, or any of that.
The moral life is, unless your at Esalen, you should clothes the naked, you should feed the hungry, comfort the afflicted, bury the dead, and there are a couple others, obvious things to be done.
- Terence McKenna

=================================

there's a thing I gotta geet off my chest

There's so many people whose idea of behaviour amounts to "I should be nice, I should do good, I should be positive etc." and that is TERRIBLE. Just absolutely despicable.

We even have names for the more acute forms, like "toxic positivity", where the complete refusal to allow negative emotions or outlooks, and instead gunning for "good vibes only", causes a host of problems: it cuts people off from valuable emotions, for both processing and growth; it shames people; it guilts people; it is a profound gaslighting; it is a suppressive disaster.

and like all other forms, the "negative" emotions stay suppressed inside, where they rot and they start consuming people from the inside out. So many "rotten" people have genuinely rotten inside from the stagnation of so many of their emotions.

Closely related are the "love and light" spiritual folks, which are just one step down that ladder, since they're not so openly dismissive of "negative" events and emotions, but they still try to stay as positive as possible, and inevitably end up suppressing about half of themselves, with disastrous consequences.

Then we have the "nice guys", who are just trying to get by in their social environment with the idea that being nice is the right thing to do, only we understand a majority of them to be repressed, unsuccessful, frustrated, and just generally not in their lane.

And then of course there's Christianity, which even in its more milquetoast incarnations, generally posits that you should ideally behave like Jesus. What Would Jesus Do bracelets, and all that.

Except that's horseshit. Fuck WWJD. 

All of them are based in the similar concept that Goodness is an ideal to pursue, that we should just be Good

all teachers and no students
all healers and no infirms
how fucked up would that be? How useless, how *pointless* the experience of it?





the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Doing something just because it's the "good" or the "nice" thing to do is one of the most disastrous choices you could make, because you take your own feeling out of the equation, you take any specific consideration out, you don't listen to yourself, you just do the thing that's generally nice and in so doing rob yourself and others.
https://twitter.com/erin_nerung/status/1606457627160023040
wanting to help is iatrogenic

What would jesus do, well why don't you just fucking go and lay on hands on the next infirm you meet and cure them of their ailings. You are not Jesus. YOU ARE NOT JESUS. How is this hard to understand?







greenridge beach, amber woods, cave leading to Zinna, in the vault under the tower,