
I'd say always keep a lookout on Benjamin P Hardy and Rat Zana

https://www.processimagining.com/

-------------------------------

what about the whole ayahuasca thing?
https://medium.com/@victimsofcomics/biting-the-bucket-with-ayahuasca-2940c5da3248
https://medium.com/s/trips-worth-telling/puking-my-way-to-good-mental-health-my-adventures-with-ayahuasca-9de299abdf13

and the whole movement of psychedelics for better mental health
https://psychedelic.support/resources/how-psychedelics-help-neurons-grow/
and all dem links in the psychedelic praxis

and the effects it's had on you
the revelations you've had
and how it cured you of depression
that rebalancing of chemicals
the ayahuasca reportage from Gaia.net

the whole collection of visions of yours

----------------------------
it is informative, but not comprehensive. It is meant to illustrate but not give solutions, some of the stuff discussed, or the frameworks to approach such issues, may very well be delineated in later posts

many if not all of us know the frustration that results from procrastination, the feeling of what you have to do and what you end up doing not lining up

deviation, redirection of will, gets an impetus and is deviated, redirected
there's a thing to do but there's no motivation
and when there's motivation it gets deviated towards dissipative actions, that capture more readily the attention



- to recognize that willpower doesn't work long-term, you're going to have to do something that actually motivates you in some way or another
- to clear densities
- to actually put yourself to it when the impetus comes
- to have fun, to have a sustaining environment, inner and outer, cultivate conditions
- to stay the course (no distractions thing, by subtraction, offloading from the mind and into the environment) so there's the whole no-distractions thing so that once the actual push comes, it goes all the way
- to acknowledge the work done, and be appreciative of what's been achieved

Of

it's fine to leave when there's still fuel in the tank, but it's also good to experiment and know your limits so you can properly know when to quit before the fatigue sets in, so that would imply actually trying to push yourself until the point where it's too much, and giving it some exploration, simulated annealing, and occasional pushing yourself past it, which comes natural to do anyway since it's life, there's change happening

well willpower doesn't work, you are pushing against yourself effectively, and that strains the body/mind/emotions complex with tension

so what's the alternative?
well long explanation of where the procrastination comes from

and the piled up density and trash about all sorts of things


procrastination and the feeling you should be doing something else, the paralysis of perfection


the guilt piled up and the frustrations
and the not following the instinct, the push to doing immediately like the zen masters do
habit can both channel creativity or ingrain resistance

enjoying what you do as way to sustain it
because just pushing yourself through it is only short-term, it makes it heavier for you next time unless you process it, and if you process it, well that's good otherwise it just piles up 

-------------------------------------

==============================================

DONE POSTS

https://write.as/celestialboon/beliefs-can-be-partial

beliefs and their 100-0
	this whole insanity
	explained once in tulpa chat and once in the Sixth Sense chat

	beliefs can be partial.
	In fact, beliefs have to be partial in order to be falsifiable, for if a belief was unfalsifiable then that's when you would be truly insane.
	if there's one thing rationality taught me, is this. Beliefs can be measured, in the sense that a belief can be assigned a subjective probability. A degree of that belief, the amount of certainty. And it's never 0% or 100% because that would mean that they would be unmovable, no matter the amount of evidence to the contrary.
	with each new piece of evidence those certainties can be refined. Bayesian updating.
	but believing a thing is true and not true at the same time is just human nature. We do not, cannot have, perfect beliefs. We live in a shifting world of shadows and echoes.
	so the next best thing is acknowledging the uncertainty and making the best of it that we can.
	now more than ever, is a time when you will be required a tearing down and restructuring of your beliefs, multiple times, if you truly are pursuing the truth of things. I know because I'm undergoing it.

 One thing to keep in mind is that one does not arrive at a completely affirmed belief, like ever. There is no such thing as an unassailable belief. None of the 0% or 100% sort, because if there were be then they'd stand in the face of literally all contrasting evidence, and that's simply insanity. All human beliefs are partial, and based on partial evidence (since we are limited creatures). There is quite simply, no way to know for sure. So, one could start abandoning the pretense, I think. One can be cool with partial, falsifiable beliefs because it's literally all one can have. You can update it to a certain degree of confidence, but that's it. And again, it's not like it doesn't work out. One can live with that because literally everyone does.


Beliefs can be partial.

If there's one crucial thing rationality taught me, is this. Beliefs can be measured, in the sense that a belief can be assigned a subjective probability. By operational subjective probability beliefs, it is possible, given an honest subject, to determine a ratio to bets on an event, given their current amount of information available, that he may feel comfortable taking either side of. That would be his fair assessment of the bet's payoff, and in that sense, it is representative of his subjective assessment of probability of the event. 3:1 odds signals a 25% probability. 9:1 odds signals a 10% probability, and so on.

A belief is effectively an estimate about events, and as such, can be assigned subjective probablity, representative of the amount of confidence of the holder. And it's never 0% or 100%, because that would mean that they would be unmovable, no matter the amount of evidence to the contrary. You can't dislodge a 0% no matter how hard you multiplicate it.

Beliefs have to be partial in order to be falsifiable.

If a belief was unfalsifiable in such a way, that would be what it's like to be truly insane. Imagine that you had a belief so deeply rooted that nothing, absolutely nothing could displace it, not even waking up in a different reality, living there for years, or an eternity for that matter, where everyone, everything points in the opposite direction, or having direct proof of the contrary for any number of times. Imagine if one could have an overwhelming, unmistakeable, lasting impression of God, and then ending up not believing it anyway. It would be like not believing in the postman. Sounds insane, right? That's because it is. That's what 100% or 0% means, and no human belief truly reaches that place. All beliefs contain the possibility of being falsified, if with varying difficulty.

With each new piece of evidence, the beliefs can get refined (and that's basically what Bayesian updating does), but believing a thing is both true and false at the same time is just human nature. We do not, and cannot have, perfect beliefs. 

As the Buddhists preach, a very core component of reality is anicca, its inherent impermanence and transience. Not one single thing lasts forever.

Terms and conditions subject to change. 

This too shall pass.

We live in a shifting world of shadows and echoes; and our inner model of the world reflects this, no matter how much we like to pretend otherwise. 

But since we cannot have certainty, the next best thing is acknowledging the uncertainty and making the best of it that we can.

Now more than ever, is a time where there an individual has potential access to world-shattering amounts of information, and from that information, knowledge may be abstracted. And from that knowledge, wisdom may be distilled.

It can feel exceedingly daunting to sift through such impossible amounts, but guiding you through this, can be your own inner sense of truth. The one you can instinctively compare every notion that comes your way with, in order to assense its validity.

And even then, for all we gather from it, our models and beliefs are doomed to be partial, incomplete representations of what exists outside them, by the very nature of existence. Every abstraction is leaky. The map shall never be the territory. 

Ceci n'est pas une pipe.

Not to mention things shifting around us all the darn time. We've always been at war with Eastasia, have we not? 

The certainty in our models can never be fully achieved, much like we could never fully capture a river. No likeness of it will be the actual thing, and besides the actual river is something impermanent and changing, so no still image or representation will be able of fully capturing that.

But we can come close. And we can iterate on that closeness. And when the river shifts its course we can always chase it. Poetry may not fully capture the ineffable, but it can represent it. Abstractions may not completely eliminate complexity, but they can streamline it. Systems may not account for the unfathomable, but we can expand them.

"All models are wrong, but some are useful." -- George E. P. Box

But whatever happens, do not delude yourself that you've reached the end point. Everything is a work in progress, neverending.

Newtonian physics are surely the ultimate model of bodies interaction, now that we've finally discovered them and they work, right? So how about that indivisible atom? Or what bout dem dinosaurs? http://www.iflscience.com/plants-and-animals/newly-discovered-fossils-hint-all-dinosaurs-had-feathers/

But isn't that part of the beauty of it? Surely it would be boring if people eventually ran out of things to discover, and everything was just laid out.

Keep your truth-seeking about you.

When it comes time to know yourself, will you offer up all your opinions and theory, like a child their favourite blanket or toy?



with each new piece of evidence those certainties can be refined. Bayesian updating.
but believing a thing is true and not true at the same time is just human nature. We do not, cannot have, perfect beliefs. We live in a shifting world of shadows and echoes.

now more than ever, is a time when you will be required a tearing down and restructuring of your beliefs, multiple times, if you truly are pursuing the truth of things. I know because I'm undergoing it.

