mind and its dualism, works by comparison, relativity engine
there's always gonna be good or bad, up and down, as long as the mind sees because that's how the mind operates, it iss intrinsic to its functioning
color wheel
the mind makes for a poor master
the xkcd on the photos of eating a sandwich
what the mind does is differentiate, compare, examine the duality of the situation

384 or 386 million? Vital question for someone that has 385
to the intellect there are no absolutes, only comparison

the intellect contains both perfection and imperfection
and it is through imperfection that one reaches perfection
outside of the intellect neither exist in that capacity, there is no perfect that doesn't allow imperfect, there just is, if it's a perfect it's another kind of perfect that does not concern in dualities
the dualities are illusory
the mind as this powerful tool that can do discernment and can do very powerful things, but there are things that exist that are outside of this paradigm, there's lots and lots and lots that exist outside the mind, some that the mind can barely grasp on, some that are outside of its realm entirely
so the intellect has to serve, like the kidneys do

the intellect always draws good points and bad points for everything. BUT is one of the most telling keywords to the intellect's workings

bikeshedding one of the most distinctive activities

https://xkcd.com/915/
zooming in and always finding the contrast in everything

contrast is a very key word to the intellect's functioning. It is exceptionally good at spotting contrast, the highs and the lows, the bright and the dim, the good and the bad, the light and the heavy

disco elysium art cop
for those that open their eyes without escaping the framework of the mind, they find that there are flaws in everything, that nothing is sacred and nothing is free from the Bad, and so their moral adaptation is cynicism. It's very prominent in the intellectual artist, since it is part of the job's description to really look reality in the eye to make something of it. It's not as easy to escape a look into it as other occupations

> Yeah, it's another copotype -- the worst one. The most savage and brutal. The Art Cop. Nothing is good enough for him. Everything is *shit*. You have to employ an armada of adjectives to depict and demean the mediocrity of the works and visual institutions around you. Really *flex* that critical muscle. Until the vocabulary for PUNISHING mediocrity becomes second nature. Here we go...

> Trite, contrived, mediocre, milquetoast, amateurish, infantile, cliche-and-gonorrhea-ridden paean to conformism, eye-fucked me, affront to humanity, war crime, should *literally* be tried for war crimes, resolutely shit, lacking in imagination, uninformed reimagining of, limp-wristed, premature, ill-informed attempt at, talentless fuckfest, recidivistic shitpeddler, pedantic, listless, savagely boring, just one repulsive laugh after another.

to the intellectual, everything is shit because nothing is flawless. Nothing is ever perfect, thus nothing is ever purely good. And this is because good doesn't exist separately from bad; in every experience, every moment, the good and the bad are always balanced, specifically because it is an intrinsic property of the mind's workings. It's like comparing the amount of tension in one sense vs the other in a rope - they are necessarily equal. The push is always equal to the pull, simply by the way things work. The amount of distance put behind while walking is equal to the amount the distance has been shortened from the forward point

people who are victims of abuse don't even realize they've been treating that badly - until they get other points of reference to compare their treatment, and until they start listening to their bodies who have had the long and short of it all along

present moment vs cogitations/comparisons/filters of the intellect

loving something is when you appreciate something even knowing their flaws. It's liking something flaws and all, not just part of it. That's the most enduring kind of love, the long couple love, the game that I absolutely adore love. It's love that embraces all that a thing is, despite all the flaws that the intellect can spot in something

even the past and the future live in the present. The present is everything one ever gets to experience. The past and future are mental projections that are experienced in the present, just like everything else. It all lives within the prsent.

color and comparison
the chessoboard illusion shows that absolute values are meaningless to the intellect. Only comparison and relativity exist
vision is faithfully representative of the way that the mind works, it is extremely keen on differences but is very blind to any more absolute concepts

even moments that are better than others is still comparison. The language is so steeped in the workings of the intellect that it becomes very challenging to even attempt to explain such concepts with any degree of efficacy. Countless people have tried, but the truest teachers remains experience, practice, and technique.

so there's always gonna be high and low, good and bad, pleasure and pain
because pain is strong sensation; it is the mind that attaches the idea of good vs bad to the sensations
and moreover, it can apply filters to just look at very specific things and leave out others

so it is disastrous to leave the mind to direct human morality, since the mind can only work in relatives. it has no single absolute reference point within it

for true morality, we have to look outside of the mind
what we feel, the most basic, simple core truths of humanity that lay just outside of the mind
in order to find any stable truth, one needs to venture outside of the mind (which is why meditation and psychedelics etc.)
for example, morality is very simple and very human, feed the hungry, clothe the clotheless, etc.
and it's truths rooted in feeling and in the higher spiritual knowing
	It’s pretty simple, the ethical life. It’s just demanding, many of you have heard me say this, this is my…this is “father Mckenna” talking to you.
	The moral life does not consist of wheatgrass diet or affirmation, or any of that.
	The moral life is, unless your at Esalen, you should clothes the naked, you should feed the hungry, comfort the afflicted, bury the dead, and there are a couple others, obvious things to be done.
But these truths are nowehere to be found inside the mind, it's like looking for a skyscraper inside an atom
philosophers lost their way trying to reason out living, and still didn't figure out shit
people run the risk of chasing pleasure and avoiding pain and permanently equip themselves with very dangerous filters that don't let them see how things are at all, and eventually run them down from the inside
lying to ourselves is one of the easiest things to do, that's the mind filtering
many people are terrified of success because once they reach it, they'll discover it's just more of exactly the same to the mind. There's always the same amount of good and bad, of pleasure and pain, of highs and lovws. That's not something that ever thances because it is a property of the observer, of the mind. The mind works by finding differences between things, and you can't ask a fish to crawl up a tree.
It's always be that same amount of good and bad, the mind rests always in the middle, or above it, and with great good come great bad. That's why there is nothing flawless, and how great flaws produce barely any reaction in things we don't care about, and even the tiniest flaws are all the more infuriating on great works of art; small good to small bad; great good to great bad. it all finds a balance within the mind, not by some constant miracle, but because that's fundamentally how the mind works. It's like saying that by some miracle, all signals within a computer can be modeled through a combination of 1s and 0s. That's not a miracle; that's just how it works at all; how it was designed to function.

Liberation and enlighentment consists of getting out of this framework, out of your mind, to take the outside view and recognize that these qualities of the world are just properties of the lens we're viewing it through; good and bad are purely post-factum properties that the mind assigns. There is no good or bad intrinsically, no pleasure and no pain, it's all just an outpouring of the mind's functioning. The tragedy happens when we believe those are fundamental qualities of reality, and start chasing one in spite of the other, like we would be trying to arrive somewhere while never leaving any place. Arriving without leaving, that's pretty much what the mind attempts while chasing one end of the duality and escaping the other.

If one but pays genuine attention, one would realize that the mind will always, always find good and bad things about anything in equal measure. The view is nice but the wind is bothering me; the work pays well but I have to commute a lot; this situation hurts me but it's cozy and comfortable and habitual. There are never enough points to make one side outwheigh the other purely out of mental reasoning; and this is exactly why appeals to reason, internet debates, etc. never ever work as intended. 

This is also why emotion dominates ppeople in decision making: as long as emotion skews decision one side, the mind is always going to find points for both sides, and then the emotion will just look at some points while setting aside others. The choice was already made, and the points are more excuses than actual reasons.
which is why unattended, unconscious emotion is so dangerous, for it will drive our lives without even us realizing that it's doing so, and that instead we are acting out things rationally, while the mind cannot possibly take any truly rational decision on its own.

so how is it possible that we can take any decision at all? if the (clear) mind always provides a balanced analysis, the ways to side one way or the other has to be found outside the mind itself, and in fact they are. The body, with its feelings, its sensations, its needs, lays outside of this functioning. The body has clear needs that are not relativistic; the body has to be supplied energy to function; it needs certain environmental conditions to survive and stay healthy; it functions in some very uncompromising ways that are very different from the mind's relativistic flexibility. 

so for example, if we care about the body, that means attending to its physical and emotional needs. The need for nutrition, for security, for nurturance, for identity, for plasure, and so on

but who decides that we should care about the body in turn? that also has to come from outside the mind
many claim that it indeed does; spirit etc. or at least something that is not the mind as discussed here, that is distinct from it and non-dualistic

The mind is a wonderful servant but a terrible master. - Robin SHarma

"And certainly we should take care not to make the intellect our god; it has, of course, powerful muscles, but no personality. It cannot lead, it can only serve; and it is not fastidious in its choices of a leader. This characteristic is reflected in the qualities of its priests, the intellectuals. The intellect has a sharp eye for methods and tools, but is blind to ends and values. So it is no wonder that this fatal blindness is handed from old to young and today involves a whole generation." - Albert Einstein

it certainly points to the existence of a deciding force outside of the intellect

this is what basically all teachers of enlightenment past and present have been saying, the mind has to be escaped, duality has to be transcended, peace can be found in acceptance

acceptance that the good and the bad are intertwined allows to move out of the duality framework of the mind and just accept that this is just an overlay of the mind, and then something happens; when we're not caught up in this windmill, we find a peace underneath, something more fundamental and properly unexplainable as a property of ht emind (it doesn't belong ot it), which has to be experienced to be properly understood (since th emind cannot truly grasp it on its own), which is what everyone has been pointing to.

That's the place where you find the Satori (the gift) and where you escape the duality of mind

outside of the mind we find out the samskaras and we find our Spirit and all sorts of other things

and we realize that things are fundamentally okay, and all the ups and downs are just part of something that on the overall is Okay and is going in the right direction
"the Mahayana Buddhist vision of unshakeable prosperity"

right action is not good or bad, right action transcends good and bad (because good and bad are dualistic, mental constructs)
doing the right thing doesn't feel like doing a good thing, it's just the right thing, it's just appropriate, I was just doing what felt right
and conversely, I was just following someone else's orders. Good and bad doesn't enter the equation in the decision making, because they are purely relativistic and meaningless in context

all good things are balanced by things, "of course, something bad just HAS to happen when all was going well", and it does every time because that's the inescapable mind's perception

acceptance as a property of consciousness, instead of the trap of the mind
the unattended mind creates a recursive trap for itself, chasing an illusory Good and escaping an illusory Bad, something that can never be accomplished and that instead creates an endless tail-chasing

Happiness, like all emotion, lives outside of duality. Happiness is not the opposite of sadness, or of any other emotion. One can be happy and sad at the same time, just like one could be sad and angry, or happy and angry. In fact, one of the most striking ways I've heard compassion described is as a "sad joy."
Sad in itself comes from the netural affection, "sated", fullness. A sad heart is a filled heart, full of emotion

Paradise is right now, the kingdom of God is within you, etc.


and that's why the gratitude journal both works and is bunk - the idea is to restore balance, but that's most easily achieved by just removing oneself from the duality of it all