It's crazy sometimes how we forget what life is really like. When we grow old and suddenly people get to believe that we can't learn anything new, that anything that we're not instantly good enough are things that we will just never ever learn; suddenly people give up so easily on the thought of getting to learn, to do, to be anything new.  

And of course, this happens earlier still for the perfectionists and the "fixed mindset" people, etc. where any obstacle in the way becomes a serious excuse for stopping and quitting. Life gets split into the things that one's already good at, and the things that will be forever out of reach.

The ironic part is that these people have simply forgotten what it means to actually learn something. It's a process that we all went through when we were younger, and that many have just removed from their minds. Learning is a slow, slow, gradual affair. We took literal years to learn a language, word after word, sentence after sentence. Years for standing and running. Years still for reading and writing. Took our dear time with everything, from every single topic in school, to how to play, how to relate to others, how to do anything. It's just a fact of life that on the road, we don't know all there is to know at any point, that it's always a path of learning, of listening, of figuring it out in the moment, and adding to our understanding piece by piece. That every piece, every event, is approached with the cognition that you don't know what's gonna happen, and it's going to figure itself out through the very act of participation. That living is just about the humility of participating to life in a process of learning through attention, enjoyment, and creative experimentation. That one learns by doing, and that the "mistakes" on the road are each just a stepping stone for further understanding, for further growth. Each mistake a lesson, because anything that is recognized as a mistake comes with the awareness of what could be done instead. The practice is the teacher, as they say in many meditative schools. The practice is the teacher.

And the overall deal is that the whole process of getting to approach a topic is an experience, an adventure; mastery is not only an illusory, unreachable fictional point (since we're always learning, including on the things that we know really well), but mastery as we understand it is not even the point; what *exists* at all points is not the mastery, but the practice.

I've learned a while ago a much better understanding of mastery: the word *kung* in Chinese, as in *kung fu* or *qi kung*, is an approximate for the Western *mastery*, but it means something subtly different: it means a kind of masterful *practice*, that underlines how mastery is a concept that only has value in the execution. It is a mastery in the same way of being healthy is a sort of mastery; it is about living healthy, much more than knowing what healthy is. It is an understanding, knowledge, and discipline put into practice with results. That is the kung.

And it is also more than that; for doing is not just about the knowledge you come to a moment with, but also what you are able to receive and elaborate as it happens. It is about how well you can listen, discern, and adapt to the situation; how much you are able to read the situation and come up with creative solutions on the fly. Doing something well means also being able to figure out the moment. Doing is about being there, fully, so fully that you are able to draw inspiration from it. That you can read the flow and follow it. That you can hear the melody and move to the beat. Kung is being connected, so that you can take messages from one side and bring it to the other, with enough expansion of awareness that both sides are here now.

The beginner's luck is about exactly this; the beginner only has their attention to rely on, and is able to use it-unimpeded by notions-in order to flow with the activity. When the head starts filling with instructions and directives, they are actually an impediment to the proper activity, until it is learned to put them aside and keep the simple experience of the moment at the forefront.

> Before I studied the art, a punch to me was just like a punch, a kick just like a kick. After I learned the art, a punch was no longer a punch, a kick no longer a kick. Now that I've understood the art, a punch is just like a punch, a kick just like a kick. The height of cultivation is really nothing special. It is merely simplicity; the ability to express the utmost with the minimum. - Bruce Lee

Notice how theory is something very transitorial; theory is the confusing stepping stone in the middle where everything is more complicated and things aren't intuitive anymore, until *understanding* comes and knowledge is replaced by it in the spotlight. After knowledge, things are intuitive again, but with the benefit of practice, of learning, and having built a solid understanding of the practice through the scaffolding of theory.

Theory takes a side role in the whole show; the arriving point is not knowledge, but *understanding*, and understanding is something that is not the kind that can be put into paper and passed around; understanding is singular for each being, it's the personal way that they relate to the art, as the art etched its way into their being through the practice. Understanding is the individual, intimate relationship between the doer and the doing.

And all of this happens through the doing; nothing is really understood through the mere studying; the student has to form a personal relationship with the art, and that comes through practice, through doing. A doing that is full of learning (and thus, understanding that what we did before can be done better now; or, in a crass way to call the experience, a mistake)

What changes in people as they grow older, or as they stop learning in general, is not that their brain can't anymore, or that they're just not able to, but rather the expectation of the process. It has always been the case that learning has been a long and tentative journey, an explorative trek that takes us many different ways, many of which will turn out not to be our true direction, but nonetheless each contributes to our understanding.

[passage on how games vary wildly from their prototype, and even their creation was a wandering journey]
go look through that youtube channel
even cave story, and others still

trying to minimize mistakes sounds to me like trying to minimize life. Mistakes are something that we should cherish; they are our clearest and most obvious learning opportunities.
"I can't do something because I'll make a mistake" oh, god spare you from actually learning something

We should look forward to a life where we do mistakes every day, only possibly new mistakes each time.


