I was wondering today why most advertisement leans so heavily on providing a story to associate with the product; as far as going (just now) "This is not just a stairlift; it's the start of your new life." It got me thinking.

It feels like we've outsourced our stories as of late. The stories that media tells us, that advertisement tells us, that the news tell us, etc. We have terms such as the Official Narrative, which is speaks volumes about the importance of authoritative sources on our own stories.

It feels like there's an understated power in those stories. In some aboriginal cultures, if something wasn't working out in your life, the elders would say that you needed a new story. If your beliefs shape your reality, and your beliefs are made of stories, this makes sense.

New stories won't fix every problem, but looking at the market for them, it reads like there's still a strong craving for someone to tell us a story that will change us, or even fix us, going as baseline as "owning this product will make you successful in life".

Ofc this felt need is attended to in more ways than just with products. Eg. when people say "so and so people, you're valid", what is their aim? They want to help some people feel differently about the world; They want to help them tell themselves different, more benign stories.

Fundamental to every single culture is its myths, the foundational stories about the world, where it comes from, how it functions, and what our place in it is. The story/myth teller has a long history of being a revered function, or even being the responsibility of the shaman.

Overall it just feels that stories aren't given the respect that they deserve. Stories fascinate us, excite us, engage us, make us *care* (which etymologically means, it makes us pay attention), and they are also what our beliefs are built from. 

A belief is a meaning-rich condensation of what would otherwise be just Raw Experience; it is an arrangement of meaning and concepts distilled so to make sense out of Something That Happens. And that's what a story *does*. That's what a story *is*.

A belief doesn't contain the full experience of Being; it is abstracted away to give attention to only specific aspects of it (ie. "things fall down"). Likewise, a story is not Everything That Happened, but only a limelight shone on specific and meaningful details.


Beliefs being outsourced robs us of the possibility of playing the game of life

beliefs are the betting chips at the poker table of life. To really play the game you have to risk them


stories, we are beings of stories, we tell stories, we live stories, and we long to share them
storytelling, theatre and the way we merge our characters into a scene
and how one character can offer the pivot the scene revolves around, and develop
people with strong stories will have the rest conforming because of interest, curiosity, 

and when you grow up you WANT to know how to fit into the existing story, only to realize eventually that it's all shitty stories with shitty roles, and the way people succeed is by having being raised with good stories, having good relationship with success, with money, and with the world
that's the power of rich upbringing, the good story (and all the rest)

and there's the idea of fiding your own story, your own song, if you don't have a plan you're part of somebody eslse's plan, know yourself, know what you came here to do, remember who you are

as long as you wield your story, other people may play theirs but you don't have to fit in, you don't have to change your bit, there can be some dissonance (which was previously maybe stamped out with violence), being yourself is recognizing your story and living it

making something out of spite is a story that is in direct opposition to other stories, and it becomes a secured channel (if maybe bumpy) to flow the stuff from

and the trouble is that whatever information comes in can always be filtered by the story, interpreted through the lens of the story
to question the story means to look at the most basic assumption your life revolves around, that of *what you're doing here*, and most often to challenge those deep strata one needs serious, focused introspection, which can be achieved by meditation, yogas, disciplined usage of psychedelics, other spiritual techniques, or just *some* way to introspect honestly and outside of usual framing

stories and being susceptible to others's stories, being convinced by them, conning etc.

it's the way we reason about things, the way we rise above simple desires and emotions. To reason about something, we manuever something that is not simply present in a sensory fashion, and that's a story
models are a story
beliefs are a story
it's how thought is structured, how the abstract is commonly structured, how it's easiest for us to think
the easiest way to move from the concrete to the abstract

it's one of many ways to operate in symbols, ie there's maps, but stories are some of the most commonly used tools
even if animals maybe operate on some stories, they don't possess the means to operate ON those stories routinely and/or easily. They are subject to what moves them, and they rarely if ever stop to question things.
They live stories much like a finger would live one, the story encompasses them, and they act through it, and for it, but they're out of scale to act ON it, to properly access it and meaningfully, consciously edit it

people wonder about fake game shows that pretend to be real, but that's kayfabe, that's movies, that's the entire entertainment industry
This the same idea behind keyfabe - or indeed most entertainment. People are watching, people are there for the story. How it is narrated is secondary, and how it is achieved is tertiary. It matters not the degree of fakery required to achieve it, as long as it's a good story.
Stories are completely fundamental to what people enjoy, and indeed it's how people function at all - a complaint I see often thrown at neurotypicals is that they don't possess the degree of self-introspection, or the barest scrap of willingness, to be able to examine the social story they are participating in and perpetuating, and being able to step outside of it on occasion. 
It's not that acting out a story is bad - people wouldn't have much of a life without them. The problem is when they go do unobserved and unremarked as to become a powerful tool of coercion, manipulation and just dangerous in general 
It's like you didn't understand how hunger or food works, and you never ate but for a guy who gives you his leftovers each day and for some strange, bizarre reason you feel really strongly for this guy? Like it feels like he's almost saving your life every time you two meet? It's just weird tho, he barely says a word and you're completely under his spell
Like, if there's very basic needs of yours that aren't properly managed and taken account of, then life gets very weird, and very dangerous
And people having to take conscious direction of their own stories is, I think, one of these great unremarked needs of this era

it's something taht goes on and on and on with advertising, it's everywhere in there, they're always selling yo a story, they promise success, likeability, happiness, a new life, some change, all thigns that many are desperate to experience, and that get caught in those scams and empty promises2


And this alleged boundary can be observed to bleed into people's behaviours, when for example people make a persona online and act it out; some even carve out separate lives for it, like different twitter accounts, different friend circles, and so on. And it's a bit hard to determine what exactly is fictional about these beliefs, since beliefs don't get any more real than when you act out on them. Leading to material behaviours is the ultimate test of reality for something that we believe in, and that ALSO counts for something that we can claim are doing so ironically, which is a nugget of wisdom also contained in the adage that ironic shitposting is still shitposting. Doing a thing "ironically" still means you're doing that exact thing. 


I think the biggest issue with this whole structure is how most people are really not used to see their beliefs in such a way. They take the ideas that they have internalized for granted, to the point that they can barely conceive that any other way of living might exist, never mind that they might venture there themselves. I think that we do have an innate hunger for new stories, new experiences in our life, and getting to question and renew these core beliefs could be a great way to do it, that would probably be a lot more satisfying than being stuck in the same rote situations and having to sate the hunger every time with new stories by proxy eg. media entertainment.

10:22
19:25

the stories we usually live, and the roles that we play in them, are socially/interpersonally constructed, and socially mandated; it's not just a personal affair. To make a meaningful parallel, in improv theatre the role an actor plays is something that the overarching theme/story rests upon just as much as the single actor rests on the ongoing theme/story to respond to and adapt. A story about how an individual participates in society is not something that purely belongs to either the individual or the society, but it's about the interplay of the two instead; it needs both to sustain itself. Likewise, with interpersonal relationship, one finds itself molding to the framing that the situation provides, which can be read as a sort of scene that one plays a part in.