procrastination happens when you tie too much self-worth to doing things and so you fear doing them

only do what you likeeeee otherwise where's the point? enjoy life and live with love

Note: while possibly informative, this guide is not comprehensive. It is not meant to provide all the solutions, as many problems require an intuitive approach, or a framework that cannot be discussed as a side mention, and will probably be properly expanded on in separate posts.

Many if not all of us know the frustration that results from procrastination, the feeling of what you have to do and what you end up doing not quite lining up, if at all. 

It can feel as an inability to summon the drive, the willingness to perform certain tasks

Regardless of the work to do, or what gets done, it is a process that ends up plaguing a person with frustration, guilt, regret, and can devolve into a negative spiral through the forced or desperate attemts of the individual to overcome it, that end up making it even more difficult next time to summon a genuine willingness.

For most people, the past end up accumulating into the present. What they do piles up not only in the form of memories, but densities as well: frustrations, reservations, blockages, impedments, biases
the things they don't know how to leave behind

When things work they don't get in the way. Good work disappears. The enlightened person is one to which actions come naturally because they have removed everything that stood in the way of that. Enlightenment is by and large, a process of subtraction, of clearing the runway so that what comes to you can actually go through.

Learning to get stuff done the proper way

There is something crucial to recognize here, and that there is an inner component and an outer component to all the steps delineated here. 
This because getting things done is a process of externalization; of taking what sits inside and bringing it into manifestation, on the outside. 
Thus, there is a very tight-looped interplay of the inner and outer scapes that takes place during the creative process (in the broad sense of creative as creation, as action) and that has to be considered on both sides, much like a swimmer cares about the water and air both.
Very much in general, quite interesting parallels can often be drawn between the inner state and the outer state (this as side note for further reflection and assimilation).
The point of studying a concept, an issue, on both sides, is to eventually reach an harmony between the two, a coherence, a feeling that the outside reflects the inside, and that there is a positive interplay between the two.

so let's look

- To get yourself some real motivators
- To clear the existing densities that prevent you from inictiating action
- To actually put yourself to it when the impetus comes
- To keep going once you have started
- To maintain a sustaining, conductive, and supportive environment 
- To acknowledge and appreciate the work done

Now on to the details

- Get yourself some real motivators
Compassion

Inner:

The first step is to recognize that [willpower is not a finite resource that gets depleted.](https://hbr.org/2016/11/have-we-been-thinking-about-willpower-the-wrong-way-for-30-years) Willpower is an emotion. 
Emotions rule our world, as much as we like to pretend otherwise; all the more for trying to repress them in circumstances and leaving them to fester until come back when they're too strong for our control mechanisms to manage.

If you feel distracted by something, and don't feel like doing it, then no amount of willpower is going to engage you, because it doesn't work that way. Willpower *is* the engagement. The more engaged you are, the more willing you are to put yourself to it, and that's it. That's the whole willpower equation.

Willpower as thought is what happens when you try to do something despite yourself, which ends up doing damage down the road because you are fighting yourself, you are splitting yourself down the middle intead of working *with* yourself to achieve something. And while it's understandable that some people might just want to get some work done that they don't like, like a day job, don't give yourself any illusions, it's not because you're expending some finite resource. You've found some way to actually put yourself to it, as ephemeral and inefficient and grueling as it may be, so you could take the time to study and improve it, for your own good at least. Whatever the truth is, pretending otherwise would only tense yourself chasing false leads and tangling yourself in knots because you didn't know better.

you're going to have to do something that actually motivates you in some way or another
So what is it that works?

Commitment works. 

And how does commitment work?

Inner: 
Intention-setting. State clearly and simply what it is that you're pushing to achieve. Hold this intent within you. Once a direction is clearly delineated and expressed, the parts can line up and come together in enabling it and supporting it.

The why of what you're doing. Knowing why you are doing something is immensely more important than the how; the how is temporary, it change from occasion to occasion in little and big ways, and is a child of the present moment, but the why is the underlying general direction, the prime motivator. Asking yourself why you do something is something that you can do even once a day. There is no right or wrong answer; there is only the answer you give today, and the answer you'll give tomorrow with more experience under your belt. Some people might also recognize this is a concept that sits at the base of the Law of Attraction.

Goal-setting. For some, [concrete, achievable goals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMART_criteria) are what gets them going. For some others, setting impossible goals for themselves helps them going because it frees them from the performance anxiety of having to hit a mark, but it still gets them to achieve something while they try to. For others still, setting minuscle goals is important because it gets them started and then they're free to put themselves to it without restrictions. Whatever form of goal-setting you use, they are a very valid tool for you to use. Having signposts on the road, no matter how distant, can greatly help you navigate around the options and difficulties.

[Here is another read on the matter.](https://medium.com/@benjaminhardy/
willpower-doesnt-work-here-s-how-to-actually-change-your-life-2650c55407ac), but keep in mind that by willpower here is meant the finite resource concept; we remind you that that's old debunked studies, and besides, Benjamin here is saying that going by this finite (and imaginary) resource is not what works anyway, which lines up nicely with the fact that it doesn't exist.

Outer: 
Public investment. In ways proportional to the grandiosity of the dream, make corresponding steps toward it. Invest in it. Buy material. Make public announcements. Create some sunk costs.
Free yourself from the burden of having to decide if you want to completely commit or not. Once you hit the point of no return, you'll be free to completely focus on the single future ahead.
Accountability. When you're pressured to deliver in some way or other by external factors, it frees up a lot of the mental load of having to decide what to do.


- To clear densities 
Understanding, valor

This is the long-term part of subtraction. This is about things that hold you back and have been doing so for a while, and that you need to clear out of your life.
To change your life, you gotta actually change your life; sometimes if you desire to become lighter on your feet, you have to address the big weights on your shoulders.
This is the part that ties back most closely to procrastrination, for procrastrination is often the result of an accumulation of the wrong conditions that end up slowing down and redirecting the momentum that one might get.

inner:
Very naturally through life, people accumulate stressors from the hardships we encounter, of all forms; without the proper emotional intelligence, and techniques or rituals to process those stressors, however, they can end up depositing in one's emotional history and shape our disposition and base feeling towards things and events. 

For particularly severe stressors, this congealing process is called trauma. But, this applies for the smaller stuff as well with repeated exposure, and especially if we bring ourselves to ignore them and instead proceed to heap more bad feelings on top by pushing ourselves through stuff and hating it all the while.

This leaves densities in the mind/body/emotions, that can end up haunting us, reverberating through the organism with malaise, contrasting feelings, intrusive thoughts, action paralysis, and other manifestations. It creates a concerted effort to prevent such activities to be undertaken. After all, it is a very reasonable natural mechanism of self-defense to avoid that which hurts you.

Procrastination then is a general mechanism of avoidance of the "thing that we are supposed to do," by accumulation of microtraumas related to such activities.

The general solution to this is getting more in touch with our emotions; expand our awareness of them, so that we may come to understand them, and in turn, learn to work with them, instead of against them. But that is the subject of many other lengthy publications, not to mention future possible posts in here.

[For further exploration, here's Hardy's take on the matter.](https://medium.com/@benjaminhardy/you-can-never-change-your-life-through-willpower-heres-what-actually-works-928a562db627) As before, by willpower he means the concept of expenditure of force against oneself and one's deeper wishes.

Outer
The practice is about the present, so what's needed is clear what's from the past work that doesn't actually help or inspire you, that doesn't support you anymore in your present pursuits.

Cut out of life the toxic places, the toxic people, the things that don't help you put yourself in the right condition, in the right mood, that pull you astray, that drain your energy for the rest of the day, that distract you from what's important to you. There's only so much time in a day, and some things are not worth the time you spend on it, if it doesn't align with a deeper calling within you.

Valor

- Actually put yourself to it when the impetus comes
Humility

inner: 
Remeber the Nike slogan, "Just do it"? It happens all too often that we overthink ourselves out of the initial impetus. Emotions and drive are things of the moment, and thinking too much on what to do can lead to them just fading away.
It is said of the zen masters that they eat when they are hungry and they sleep when they are tired. The core concept of this is that they have learned to accept themselves as whole beings that work in harmony, an organism that cooperates with itself and knows best. In western culture, we have managed to overload this natural communication system in all kinds of ways, exploiting its channels (carefully designed flavors designed to hook you, or games constructed to suck you in, or online platforms that demand commitment from you, and so on and so forth), but the concept remains. As long as you are aware that some external things are actively trying to mess with this internal system, and you bias yourself against them accordingly to compensate, you can start regaining a proper sense of your inner workings again.

And with that, comes actually following your drives, your whims, your dreams again. [Even the fear of the unknown won't stop you anymore, ](https://medium.com/the-mission/to-have-what-you-want-you-must-give-up-whats-holding-you-back-65275f844a5a) because you'll know that what awaits you on the other side of the comfort zone can be exciting and fulfilling and *exactly what you desire*.

outer: 
We might need some extra pushes to get us over the hurdle. That's what reminders and small pushes are for.
Besides, we are, at our core, creature of additions, of habit. Putting ourselves through predetermined periods of activity helps the system to synchronize around such an event, and generate the proper motivation beforehand, and mobilize the required resources and creativity for it. Many self-help resources focus a good deal on the power of habit, and for the very good reason that is a massive facilitator of the continuous practice.



- Stay the course 
Forgiveness

This is the short-term part of subtraction. It's about removing the small things that would otherwise veer you off-course and/or impede what you set out to do. Once the push comes, you should be able to ride it all the way through.

Offload the mind.
You're going to need focus, so what you'll do is remove everything that is in the way of that.

Inner:
Offload your mind. If possible, get the other things that need to be done, done first, to the point where everything else can wait.
If some other thought is pestering your mind, write it down in a way that you know you'll return to after you're done. This is for before the session, but if the same thing happens during a session, you're free to write down those too. It's only a few seconds, and it can be particularly productive if they feed back into the practice (like ideas for new things, new routines, new projects).

Habit is a way of mental hygene because it preludes that some time period will be used for a task and that task only, and as such, helps with directing the attention only there.

Much of the wisdom that accompanies meditation is applicable here, for meditation is, at its core, the practice of direction and redirection of attention.
Focus your attention. The more you are able to just direct your attention in a natural, exclusive manner to the matter at hand, the more focused you'll be (by definition), and the more it will come easily and spontaneous.
Treasure your flow. Once you reach the Zone, the avoidance of distractions goes double.
Forgive yourself from distractions. Even when they happen, what one can do is just accept that it happened, forgive themselves for it, and return to focus on the matter at hand. The point is to train the attention to focus on the task, instead of anything concerning the distraction, including self-recriminations about it. They don't help anyone. If you really like, you can take the mechanism apart at the end of the session and see what brought you to distract yourself, and what to do about it next time.


Outer:
Set yourself up in a way so that you won't be disturbed. This includes both making sure that you won't be bothered, if possible, but it also means to remove the visual and other sensory distractions from your field of attention.

The outer work environment is an extension of your inner work environment. If you're concerned about being in the best conditions to produce work, then you should put a lot of consideration about what's outside the body that work with, and around.

Remove distractions. Put away the objects that would redirect your attention without being of aid to the task (ie. distracting). Use no distraction/fullscreen mode for apps and programs. Tile your screen with only the things that matter.

Correlate your work environment with work only, the same way that you should use your bed ~~mostly~~ only for sleeping. Dedicate an environment, a device, a time of day or week, to the practice only. It declutters associations and helps your thoughts not to wander to the other activities.


- Have fun, have a sustaining environment, inner and outer, cultivate conditions
compassion

First off, it's easier to keep at something if it's fun. No one really wants you to suffer, so you probably shouldn't either.

The world could use more people doing what they really love.

Just do what you can. Work your way upwards. Keep it enjoyable, so you can come back to it next time with excitement and anticipation.

Everyone has their own rhythms, so just experiment with yours. There are all kinds of suggestions about how to organize your work time but they are as disparate as the people that use them, so just keep that in mind, and resolve to find what works for you, through exploration and iteration. Pauses can be fine

do what you do in love. Do it out of the natural outpour of the deepest you you can find. It's what gets your best you out, and your best result done/

fun, 
and a rhythm that is sustainable, everyone has their own times and rhythms so just try stuff around, there's all kinds of suggestions but they are as different as the people the suggest them because different rhythms work for different people. Just iterate on what works for you.
there can be pauses but it has to feed back into the work, like jutting ideas of other posts, or sketches, as long as it feeds back in the practice, let it happen, since you're progressing, and that's good, and you're learning to follow your natural flow as it goes into something productive, so that's super good

Have fun, because no one really wants you to suffer, so 

positive feedback loops
inspiring things around

also do remember to iterate on things, it may not come well teh first time, or you could change, or the work could change, so keep iterating on things

associations, returning to what matters, positive feedback loops, desirable things, no clutter (less thinking and more doing, can always revise later, and if cannot be revised then you can learn to get it right the first time with practice and revisitiation)

Outer:

the same rules apply, there's reminders, like the thoughts about something else there's the various objects and if they feed back positively about the work, good, otherwise they have to be replaced or put out of sight (and thus out of mind)

there's always music and such, a lot of people use it, I recommend 432 because it has that calming and opening effect on the body, it's good to bring the whole of you forward, it's a little like green tea , with the raise of alertness but the calming effect too (caffeine + theanine)

also the associations are a strong thing and thus they must be cultivated properly, so that's the rule where teh work environment is not used for play and such, or other distracting things that you could consider while doing work 

	same thing but with objects

what about the part where there's people withouth ADHD that can actually manage to delay gratification? well for them it's easier because they can like the result and not just the 


Create a supporting environment. Surround yourself with people that are interested in the topic, that know more than you do on it, that are creative, interesting, knowledged; that can inspire you, or can give you feedback, or can excite you to push yourself further. It is no wonder that many creative people end up creating small communities where they can immerse in each others' vibes. It's no wonder Jim Rohn, motivational speaker, says that “You are the average of the five people you spend the most time with.”



- to acknowledge the work done, and be appreciative of what's been achieved, take care of yourself
Appreciation

remember you're not a machine. Treat yourself well in a way that supports you,. Make it a part of something healthy, of a healthy you. There's only to gain in both sides if it keeps you well

inner: pats on the back, and gratitude journal, and real appreciation, and thanking the UNiverse for the conditions that allow you to get the stuff that matters done
measuring PROGRESS as means of determining what's been done, what to work on
get to appreciate the details
https://medium.com/thrive-global/this-unorthodox-goal-setting-process-increases-your-happiness-confidence-and-success-3c6bc40ebfd7

Inner feedback. Reviewing the work you've done is very important, because it allows you to spot what you could improve, and gives you the drive to correct what you've decided you could improve. It gives you a very tangible reason to get at it next time, and that's the basis of commitment.

be udnerstanding with yourself, there's highs and lows in life

be apprieciative. get the details, see what you appreciate about what you did, write and review, and you can also appriecciate that you spotted things that you can do better next time
there's a lot of gratitude and understanding and forgiveness and compassion to be had all around

outer: well you can use some external rewards but they're iffy. It's better to have a supportive group that praises your achievements or results, something that more directly feeds back into the practice, that makes you want to do more of it, and not just make you feel good. If you want to feel good there's always the wind-down things like taking a shower or relaxing somewhere, while basking in the gratitude as above

have someone feel-good with you and such, comment, feedback, appreciate, and all that good stuff, it's the stuff of friendships even

accept feedback, and be appreciative of the parts that can help you grow, and dismiss those that you have no way to make meaningful use of.

Of

it's fine to leave when there's still fuel in the tank, but it's also good to experiment and know your limits so you can properly know when to quit before the fatigue sets in, so that would imply actually trying to push yourself until the point where it's too much, and giving it some exploration, simulated annealing, and occasional pushing yourself past it, which comes natural to do anyway since it's life, there's change happening

well willpower doesn't work, you are pushing against yourself effectively, and that strains the body/mind/emotions complex with tension

so what's the alternative?
well long explanation of where the procrastination comes from

and the piled up density and trash about all sorts of things


procrastination and the feeling you should be doing something else, the paralysis of perfection


the guilt piled up and the frustrations
and the not following the instinct, the push to doing immediately like the zen masters do
habit can both channel creativity or ingrain resistance

enjoying what you do as way to sustain it
because just pushing yourself through it is only short-term, it makes it heavier for you next time unless you process it, and if you process it, well that's good otherwise it just piles up 






Footnote: seriously read everything by Benjamin Hardy, he's a real words guru and has much to say about self-help
-----------


it is informative, but not comprehensive. It is meant to illustrate but not give solutions, some of the stuff discussed, or the frameworks to approach such issues, may very well be delineated in later posts

many if not all of us know the frustration that results from procrastination, the feeling of what you have to do and what you end up doing not lining up

deviation, redirection of will, gets an impetus and is deviated, redirected
there's a thing to do but there's no motivation
and when there's motivation it gets deviated towards dissipative actions, that capture more readily the attention



this whole, inner and outer component, which can be abstracted as the same thing going on but on both sides

DUAL ANGLE - inside and outside for everything, since that's real good
because there's a coming together of the inside and the outside and thus there's a need for both to be ready and appropriate
HARMONY, COHERENCE

- to recognize that willpower doesn't work long-term, you're going to have to do something that actually motivates you in some way or another. INtention-setting, for reals
- to clear densities
- to actually put yourself to it when the impetus comes
- to stay the course (no distractions thing, by subtraction, offloading from the mind and into the environment) so there's the whole no-distractions thing so that once the actual push comes, it goes all the way
- to have fun, to have a sustaining environment, inner and outer, cultivate conditions
- to acknowledge the work done, and be appreciative of what's been achieved
---------------------

- get yourself some real motivators

to recognize that willpower doesn't work long-term, you're going to have to do something that actually motivates you in some way or another
willpower doesn't work guy, and the real drive is if you're going well in the moment, there's the desire thing?

willpower is a muscle

INtention-setting, for reals
decide to do something
determine the why, because the why is immensely more important than the how

https://medium.com/@benjaminhardy/willpower-doesnt-work-here-s-how-to-actually-change-your-life-2650c55407ac

- to clear densities (the long-term part)

inner:
accumulated stuff about events, pushing through, hating it while you do it, doing it when you didn't want to, all those can leave a density about things that prevent you from starting it, or continuing it, when the occasion presents itself. It is a natural defense mechanism (after all, why would an organism continue throwing itself to something that keeps hurting it, without a very tangible motivation to?)

https://medium.com/@benjaminhardy/you-can-never-change-your-life-through-willpower-heres-what-actually-works-928a562db627

outer: it is about the present, so clear what's about the past work that doesn't actually help or inspire you. 


- to actually put yourself to it when the impetus comes

inner: just do it, the whole zen thng of doing things as the drive presents itself. They eat when they are hungry and they sleep when they are tired. Learning to work with the mind/body/emotions and not treating them as something to fight. it's something that takes some doing but it's what they end up realizing

creatures of habit, of addiction, so while it helps, there's this component of stopping the internal fighting so that it doesn't come back to bite you in tthe ass once it's gotten enough momentum. Internal manintenance and cleanup. EMotional intelligence.

the idea of the fear of the unknown is what's holding us back, and what we have to do for one is open up to new experiences.
https://medium.com/the-mission/to-have-what-you-want-you-must-give-up-whats-holding-you-back-65275f844a5a

outer: reminders, and pushes, and so, getting something to solidify your habit and get over the hitches of forgetfulness and the inertia


- to stay the course (the short-term partboon)

(no distractions thing, by subtraction, offloading from the mind and into the environment) so there's the whole no-distractions thing so that once the actual push comes, it goes all the way

(no distractions thing, by subtraction, offloading from the mind and into the environment) so there's the whole no-distractions thing so that once the actual push comes, it goes all the way. 
also forgiving yourself from distractions, and coming back to the point of attention. There's no point to beating yourself up, that only 
instead reinforce the habit of focusing on the action instead, work to ingrain it, the focusing of attention
that is a meditative state (flow) and is also something that is cultivated by meditation, the practice of directing attention


The outer work environment is an extension of your inner work environment. If you're concerned about being in the best conditions to produce work, then you should put a lot of consideration about what's outside
the same rules apply, there's reminders, like the thoughts about something else there's the various objects and if they feed back positively about the work, good, otherwise they have to be replaced or put out of sight (and thus out of mind)

also the associations are a strong thing and thus they must be cultivated properly, so that's the rule where teh work environment is not used for play and such, or other distracting things that you could consider while doing work 


- to have fun, to have a sustaining environment, inner and outer, cultivate conditions

fun, and a rhythm that is sustainable, there can be pauses but it has to feed back into the work, like jutting ideas of other posts, or sketches, as long as it feeds back in the practice, let it happen, since you're progressing, and that's good, and you're learning to follow your natural flow as it goes into something productive, so that's super good

positive feedback loops
inspiring things around

also do remember to iterate on things, it may not come well teh first time, or you could change, or the work could change, so keep iterating on things

associations, returning to what matters, positive feedback loops, desirable things, no clutter (less thinking and more doing, can always revise later, and if cannot be revised then you can learn to get it right the first time with practice and revisitiation)


	same thing but with objects

what about the part where there's people withouth ADHD that can actually manage to delay gratification? well for them it's easier because they can like the result and not just the 

- to acknowledge the work done, and be appreciative of what's been achieved

inner: pats on the back, and gratitude journal, and real appreciation, and thanking the UNiverse for the conditions that allow you to get the stuff that matters done
measuring PROGRESS as means of determining what's been done, what to work on
get to appreciate the details
https://medium.com/thrive-global/this-unorthodox-goal-setting-process-increases-your-happiness-confidence-and-success-3c6bc40ebfd7

outer: well you can use some external rewards but they're iffy. It's better to have a supportive group that praises your achievements or results, something that more directly feeds back into the practice, that makes you want to do more of it, and not just make you feel good. If you want to feel good there's always the wind-down things like taking a shower or relaxing somewhere, while basking in the gratitude as above


Of

it's fine to leave when there's still fuel in the tank, but it's also good to experiment and know your limits so you can properly know when to quit before the fatigue sets in, so that would imply actually trying to push yourself until the point where it's too much, and giving it some exploration, simulated annealing, and occasional pushing yourself past it, which comes natural to do anyway since it's life, there's change happening

well willpower doesn't work, you are pushing against yourself effectively, and that strains the body/mind/emotions complex with tension

so what's the alternative?
well long explanation of where the procrastination comes from

and the piled up density and trash about all sorts of things


procrastination and the feeling you should be doing something else, the paralysis of perfection


the guilt piled up and the frustrations
and the not following the instinct, the push to doing immediately like the zen masters do
habit can both channel creativity or ingrain resistance

enjoying what you do as way to sustain it
because just pushing yourself through it is only short-term, it makes it heavier for you next time unless you process it, and if you process it, well that's good otherwise it just piles up 