what is real? It's a question for the ages, and yet, like many of such seemingly unanswerable questions, there's a question that's even more important and interesting that precedes it: *What does real even mean?*

What is "real" as a concept? What does it mean for something to be real to us?

I'm sure lots of people have seen, and refer to, this pithy quote by Philip K. Dick,

> Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away.

But for how simple and clear such a definition seems, there's much that it leaves to be desired. Aren't events something real? And yet, events go away by themselves, by their mere existence in a limited window in time. They are real, and yet they go away.
Then one could say, well, this looks like a definition of real that only concerns things, but not even that is true. Things just change; a log might burn and after that there's no log anymore, just ash. It's gone away, so clearly the log wasn't real, right?
So there's the turn for yet another backstep: it seems like this quote is just referring to matter, as a whole. It's pretty much only mere matter that will stay around despite changes and transitions and the whole transitoriety-of-things issue. (One could go even further and point out that matter also converts into energy, but let's just stop here and pretend for the sake of the argument we have a satisfying set of all matter + all energy or so that would satisfy some sort of closed system.)

So that seems to settle it, right? Matter is real, the rest isn't.  
Only, does such an answer really satisfy us? Is it really just matter that we mean when we say that something is real?


harry potter and the way it's obviously a presence in our lives and many others
fictionalism, acting as if it's real
stories as teachers and real experiences
very real presences in our world
if mickey mouse is not a flesh and blood creature, is that the only way something can be real?

the lone singular event
it's not real if other people didn't see it, is it really real if only you saw it?
photos and tape recorders and the repeatability of experience and ofc scientism

and we start to see that our idea of real is something deeply enmeshed with scientism and our hunger for community

consciousness is the only thing that we have true evidence of; the rest is all second-hand

but then if other people stopped believing in it, debt would not be real; some parts of our reality are a collective opt-in, that we could theoretically opt-out of at any time

Value is relative, experiences are personal

> I think really what the saucers do, if you accept their presence, is they empower us. They empower us to see science for the shell game that it is; to see the past 400 years of Western culture for the pathetic narrowing of the spectrum of allowable phenomena that it is, to the point where people think that if you can't bang on something with a hammer it isn't real, which to me is just wild talk; I can't even imagine where that kind of this thing is coming from. - [Terence McKenna](https://youtu.be/oMIv09BBHro?t=1374)


> Morpheus: If real is what you can feel, smell, taste and see, then 'real' is simply electrical signals interpreted by your brain.


