SELF AS PROCESS
The self as process: a thread
https://twitter.com/ex_aItiora/status/1180372708837806082

we've talked about the ego and how its model is fundamentally flawed, but the main focus before was on how it was counterproductive to see the self as One, but little was devoted to how it is also counterproductive to see it as static, or at least statically aimed. We're gonna explore some of that today.

As we've already said, the ego is a mental structure which prioritizes stability first and foremost; it is the active effort of integrating experience into a singular point of view, a personality, a mask, while providing as much as an illusion of continuity of such a personality as possible.



First the normal way
life is commonly seen as the progression towards a perfect form of some sort. Some chase retirement, some enlightenment, some a family with kids, some success, or an arbitrary number on their bank account, or some other measure of some such that would be enough of an achievement to justify their lives, as it were. 

Except it doesn't seem to be working out. Not only this system is leaving most people dissatisfied with not having what they want yet, but it also turns out that actually getting what we want is a shockingly upsetting event.
https://briaeliza.medium.com/adjustment-shock-is-why-anxiety-spikes-after-a-big-life-achievement-5a77a7745ab7

Success is as dangerous as failure.

More than that, putting so much weight on the future engenders fears will also not have what we don't have yet, and such fears create strong inner attrition that resists us actually reaching what we strive for.
https://briaeliza.medium.com/your-brain-is-secretly-wired-to-resist-what-you-want-most-af6ed450727e

Hope is as hollow as fear. 

This part of the model is also disfunctional. It seems that our idea of progress of self is subtly flawed, but if this ain't it, then what *is* a reasonable alternative, and where would we find it?

my answer is Tao
Tao as a crude translation is the Way Of Things. If the Universe is a river, the Tao is its flow. It is something inherent to the river, and that makes/defines the river, but also something that one can go against (going against the current), finding resistance and strenous effort.

The Tao is also what I believe to be the nobler definition of Nature, as the primordial flow that shapes matter and energy into living beings, or when we speak of things being natural or unnatural, or of human nature, etc. 

Therefore the Master
acts without doing anything
and teaches without saying anything.
Things arise and she lets them come;
things disappear and she lets them go.
She has but doesn't possess,
acts but doesn't expect.
When her work is done, she forgets it.
That is why it lasts forever. 






This is a long thread in the attempt to illuminate a fundamental misconception we possess as individuals and as a culture about the Way Of Things

posting If I Were You like, immediately
a thing of Deep Magic and a profound inspiration for what follows
study it well because it may be referened multiple times in this essay


now let's go back to the ego (as structure of beliefs about What We Are)
aren't we already a process? Like going from a $job to $another_job and learning $skills and eventually becoming A Successful Person? The Ultimate Goal
the idea of growing as a person into a Final Self

society as individuals striving for *convergence* towards a single point in possibility-space, the Perfect Self, the perfect way of things that makes everything make sense and that will not need to be changed anymore etc. the Final Frontier

which results in us eg. pinning butterflies to the board, since that's their final form and conservation of it is a kindness, really, instead of having it lost to the chaotic ravage of nature once again

so the idea of change becomes the change towards something, and that Something becomes the only thing worth knowing about, because if it's something we're going towards, surely that's the important part, right? Isn't the Result the Point of the Process?

except that there's the creeping sense that we're doing something wrong somewhere. We keep hoping for incremental fixes but we're progressively just still going down the path of destruction.

and of course it's both talking about ourselves internally and our external world since As Within, So Without

except that we can see that as we conceive of things, we have a number of failures that our culture is clearly showing. Resource depletion, pollution of environment, general dissatisfaction with modern life, deep unhappiness, and others

like there's apparently some way of things that we've disconnected from and that we should reconnect to

we can see that it differs from nature (also going as far as claiming """supremacy""" over nature, but never being part of it) and that we're doing our own thing but this thing is not working out. So, as much as we're willing to do something different, there's worse ways of doing it than reconnecting with our true origin as part of Nature and doing it the way the rest of Nature does it, since we're, you know, also Nature. 


blah blah, if it's such an obvious idea, why don't we adopt it, and instead resist it? Let's see the ways we've distanced ourselves from the application of such an idea, as a culture

----------

time to dive into the basis of things, the Tao, the EPM, Nature etc.

the Tao is the flow of life, the moving shape of the Universe, the Way of Things
Tao as the river's flow
the Tao is subtly different from all that is, since it's something that one can align with or not
yeah. Just like the flow of the river, it is what defines and creates the river, but one can still go against the current
the concept of improvement is foreign to the Tao! 
	Do you want to improve the world?
	I don't think it can be done.

	The world is sacred.
	It can't be improved.
	If you tamper with it, you'll ruin it.
	If you treat it like an object, you'll lose it. 

the epm
fixed idea of time instead of the Eternal Present Moment
the idea of a fixed past which determines who you are (determinism!)
but if time is memory, then to recontextualize the past means to change the past
cause-effect is a shit for this reason, if you can change the cause, then it all blows out
instead, the EPM is paradoxically much more dynamic, since it has to innately contain the change instead of delegating to the passage of a moment in time to the next. The EPM is Change itself manifesting, it is the playstage of motion
change is something that exists before time, much like separateness (distance) exists before space

Nature is the Tao, natural/unnatural, and how there can be unnatural plants etc.

so, the self as process. We've all heard it before, right? All flows. Death is just a part of life. From dust you came, to dust you shall return. The Circle of Life. It's about the journey, not the destination, and so on

---------------

what is our view instead compared to it

what that view leads to

why we don't do something else instead

what we should do instead



THREADS
threads I've made that I could use:
the ego https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1208371376953942022
time and memory https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1210958495035641862
vibes theory and high-energy states https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1217232440709844994
that Discord rant about survival in GT server
the thread about continuum https://twitter.com/celestialboon/status/1285978292923883520
perfection is dynamic
	Besides, I think a point to understand is that perfection seen from the lens of time is also a dynamic concept. Like a river is what it is only because water keeps flowing through it. Perfection is not something necessarily static when seen through time. Even the becoming of all things is part of that perfection, like a better dance is not a more static dance necessarily
	Little08/12/2020
	Improving the world is such a large goal, essentially unattainable. Why not simply improve something small, and help other people do the same? Perhaps improvement of the world will come roundabout.
	me and the boys08/12/2020
	improvement of the self and the self's contribution to others and the surrounding environment is the surest way to ensure the world continues to evolve, as it is the minutest grains of sand that make up the shore
	CelestialBoon08/12/2020
	like, the viewpoint of the Tao Te Ching points to the concept itself of improvement as fundamentally flawed. It's not that we cannot align things with our goals more or whatnot, but any change has to start with a respect that what was existing was already perfect, at some level
	it's not that we take something bad and we make it good. It's more like a dance, where one step follows the next because that's how dances work. It's not because the previous dance step was wrong that we move on to the next
	Little08/12/2020
	Now, that is a very poetic statement, but I can't exactly agree with it.
	Something being "good enough" seems to rather abruptly stop that dance.
	CelestialBoon08/12/2020
	and that's where we put up all the apparatus of actually learning to dance right, right? But even learning to dance is a dance in itself. There's no separation

https://briaeliza.medium.com/your-brain-is-secretly-wired-to-resist-what-you-want-most-af6ed450727e

https://briaeliza.medium.com/adjustment-shock-is-why-anxiety-spikes-after-a-big-life-achievement-5a77a7745ab7

(also sometimes gotta write about high emotion states and how they were beaten out of us and that manic feel of just Going and everything is going to be absolutely fine and it feels great)

self as process, as becoming
panta rei (and how the very concept brought me to tears)
loving myself too much to ever fixate on a picture of me ( https://twitter.com/visakanv/status/1211943190992834560 )
that tumblr post about accepting the process of change https://twitter.com/ex_aItiora/status/1180372708837806082

Alan watts: the illusion of TIME, MONEY, and EGO
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dYSQ1NF1hvw

NOTES

addressing both ego
and the wrong progress

wanting to bend nature to our whims, dominion, control
imagine doing that to a person, dominion, slavery, control
nature is alive

Nature is the Tao

much of this is derived from Fukuoka's work, including The Natural Way of Farming
it's an excellent way to examine our relation to Nature than framing it in the context of our obligated relationship to it (the sustenance we derive from it and how we should do it, what relationship should spring forth) as backdrop and metaphor for the wider-spanning philosophy

the striving for perfection that has become haunting, chasing something to embody that is Not Us (as we currently are)
instead of relying and basing ourselves on the natural evolutionary movement of nature, we have broken off and taken the matter entirely into our hands, with little to no continuity from the way it was being done before
constanst striving in rejection of current situation, the linear path to becoming
the now bad/future good projection

the concept of being whole is very paradoxical
right when we accept and love ourselves for what we are, that's when change happens! Isn't this paradoxical? Is this 'loving ourselves' business destined to be a continuous chasing ourselves around? Aren't we missing something here?
that continuum concept and how we don't need to feel so incomplete and missing something
the realization that wholeness is not a fixedness, perfection is not static but dynamic (have that rant above)

pro players play to improve, it is the distillation of living for the moment in an as infinitesimal a step as they manage for a game. they don't play for reaching this rank or other, but to Improve. That's an infinitesimal step, and it places the focus on the smaller units of play, as well as the present moment of action, with focus on self as transforming.

being result-oriented has made us abstract ourselves away from the process, putting us out of the Doing and removing ourselves from the joy of just being in the process, doing the things worth living. Instead we surround ourselves with Products, with finished, static Things that are only transient and finite because pesky Nature keeps meddling with our wishes of eternity (see: never empty chalice, immortality, unlimited Thing and so on and so forth)

distorted desire, taking our innate sense of eternity and displacing it into wishing something transient was not so. Taking a wish about the intangible and displacing it onto the tangible

fear == desire, so this fear of death becomes this resistance to change (the tarot death) that we so massively desire


creativity of course as creating and re-creating the self
no better target than something we have access to and can direct so intimately
how did we get to such an idea to be so distant, so scary, so horrifying and reviled

you are what you repeatedly perfom
habit as statement, as building up resonance, as etching the path in the lanscape of being

demand of society for a fixed mask
which gets imprinted on us, absorbed, internalized
the judgment of other people which become internal voices (inner demons!)
needless to say, profoundly traumatized society to demand such from others, and to stifle what is the natural spontaneity, creativity and multifacetedness of human beings
and that we have to work to dismantle through the usual means

release and forgiveness
	just remember that it was all set up in order to try and manage life given the situation and the precedents that happened
	what you'll usually find is that there is a lot of compassion to be given to such a system for trying so hard, and that it will also contain a surprising amount of rage for knowing deep down very well how much the System (as in, society) has failed it and its expected development
	what is often perceived as self-hatred can be recontextualized as the sheer disbelief that basically everyone could have fucked up so badly at treating you right, like throughout
	ErasenYesterday at 12:57 AM
	Oh no worries there, ego is very angry that we were failed by society
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:00 AM
	yeah that's the thing, the first step is scanning the depths of such anger. The second is realizing that it stands for said deep disbelief. Then it's the coming to terms with the unbelievable depths of human folly, and lastly forgiveness
	ErasenYesterday at 1:00 AM
	Ego is v bad at forgiveness
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:01 AM
	mhm, which is why it has to be transcended
	LiminuxYesterday at 1:02 AM
	and by accepting that there is a part of you that is bad at forgiveness, you're doing that
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:02 AM
	the entire shtick of the ego is building a framework out of existing experiences in order to navigate society
	which translates as holding on to old pain in order to avoid new pain
	this holding on to old pain is what prevents forgiveness
	for what cannot be let go cannot be forgiven
	forgiveness is the reset from holding on to the past, the letting go that allows one to fully embrace the present instead
	ErasenYesterday at 1:04 AM
	Oof, ego is very good at holding onto pain
	Pain has been a long time friend
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:04 AM
	this is a distressingly common story
	ErasenYesterday at 1:05 AM
	Ego is v upset by this conversation
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:05 AM
	and I don't even have to wonder why
	ErasenYesterday at 1:05 AM
	Yea
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:06 AM
	of course, the ego would very much like a working replacement on how to navigate life in its absence
	and, whew. Mine is years in the making, truth be told
	until then, it's something that has to coexist, and that has to be nurtured carefully, like a small sapling next to a large tree taking up a lot of sun
	(I say this knowing full well that tree saplings can grow with very little sunlight, just saying this to give the full picture)
	ErasenYesterday at 1:11 AM
	Oh I understand you
	Ego is riding shotgun and is in charge of data management and prossesing
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:14 AM
	sometimes it's good to just realize that you're still alive after all that life has thrown at you, and has denied you
	that alone is worth celebration around these parts
	ErasenYesterday at 1:17 AM
	I don’t quite understand why you bought up that statement, can you elaborate on it?
	CelestialBoonYesterday at 1:18 AM
	like, as a foundation to work with oneself, sits an understanding and acceptance born out of living it all out
	and knowing this is exactly the best the system has managed
releasing truly believing that it could be useful in this form to someone/something else
and part of the process is finding who, and how can this process be helped (nurturance of life!)
the release of pain since the pain is what we've held in all this time
shit is the buddha's gift
	Q: Do you do the same thing with human waste? Wouldn’t that spread disease?
	A: Yes, I just spread it around in the orchard, here and there. If you have pigs they will root around and find it, eat it, and then chickens and other birds will eat the pig manure and microorganisms will decompose the bird manure. It will all be gone in a matter of a few days and it doesn’t smell. Nature provides a perfect system for keeping the earth clean. People think that the world outside is dirty and full of germs. It is actually the cleanest place of all. Disease problems occur when people, or cattle, or fish are crowded together in one place. Then the manure piles up, leading to pollution and disease. I consider human manure to be a gift from the Buddha.
and of course how japan had composting from human shit which was valued in hard cash, even ranking by social tier
	Japanese farmers were able use the land so intensively without exhausting its fertility because they returned everything to the soil, usually in the form of prepared compost. Human waste was made into compost by mixing it with crop residues and fodder they gathered from the hills nearby. Human manure was considered such a valuable commodity that many farmers set up stalls along the road hoping to attract “deposits” from passing travelers.

	F. H. King, an American agronomist who traveled to Japan in the early 1900s, was impressed by the Japanese farmer’s high regard for compost and the sophisticated ways they prepared it. In his classic work The Farmers of Forty Centuries, he wrote about how they used compost on field crops: “Manure of all kinds, human and animal, is religiously saved and applied to the fields in a manner which secures an efficiency far above our own practices . . . the largest portion of this organic matter is predigested with soil or subsoil before it is applied to the fields . . . at an enormous cost of human time and labor . . .”4

	The common people in the cities, laborers, merchants, and artisans, lived in row houses laid out in neat grids without enough space to grow their own food. The ruling class, mainly samurai, lived in modest houses or larger estates depending on their rank. They usually had space for at least a small vegetable garden and some fruit trees. Even so, the cities could produce only a fraction of the food they needed. Therefore, a steady stream of food and forest products poured into the cities from the countryside each day. At the same time, a steady stream of farmers and laborers left the cities laden with carts of human waste. Farmers paid for this resource according to the quality of the night soil, and that was determined by the richness of the householder’s diet. The waste of high-ranking samurai fetched the highest prices, low-ranking samurai were next, and the contributions of the commoners were the least expensive of all.

	On a trip between Nara and Osaka in 1909, King noted:

	As soon as we entered upon the country road we found ourselves in a procession of cart men each drawing a load of six large covered receptacles of about ten gallons capacity, and filled with the city’s waste. Before reaching the station we had passed fifty-two of these loads, and on our return the procession was still moving in the same direction and we passed sixty-one others, so that during at least five hours there had moved over this section of road leading into the country, away from the city, not less than ninety tons of waste; along other roadways similar loads were moving.5

	Public health benefited by the removal of human waste from the cities, which kept it from piling up and polluting rivers and streams. Sewage systems were unnecessary and major epidemics did not occur during the Tokugawa period. Kitchen and bathwater were removed by a complex system of channels that reached every neighborhood. The streets were meticulously clean and the water in the canals and along the shorelines remained clean enough to support healthy communities of edible shellfish. In Europe during the same period people were dumping their waste out their windows and onto the street.

punctuated equilibria, the way things change and
	and like, we've very comfortably fooled ourselves thinking that gradual change is the only way change is made, and like, that's just bolloks? Like, nature doesn't work that way. Nature does punctuated equilibriums. History very clearly doesn't work that way, given revolutions and very punctuated breaks with the previous trends. And we as people don't work that way either
	and part of why it's difficult for so many to integrate psychedelics is because, well, you see a new wonderful place and then you come back to your shitty home and like. There's only so much you can do in there by trying and clean it up. Many times the issues go a lot further back than some dirt strewn around. There's only so much you can do for living in a drainage pipe. So like, sometimes you just have to leave. To make a clean break
	Like, there's some things that are not meant to be rescued
	and ofc this goes as well for the within. There's only so much to be done from within one state of consciousness, and just getting out of it can be the only reasonable option for some cases
like the to-do list that is dreadful because we think that every point should always be completed, and it just hangs at the bottom of the list forever. Instead things should be thrown out! Started over! you can't just always take what exists and build something better on top. Sometimes you just have to leave it and start over elsewhere (because someone else is gonna come to it and do something that you won't, like nature.)
local maxima and how gradual change as-we-intend-it is a myth
	oh! I get what metaphor I wanted to convey. Gradual change less as in "you take your old plant and then you edit it until it becomes the new plant" and more as in "you plant a new seed and you nurture it until it becomes your new plant"
	a

there's nature's idea of stability and man's idea of stability (spiral expansion vs linear convergence)

that's subtly wrong, because man apes the parts and ends up with something that does not resemble the whole even if the parts are there. You can't just take the parts of a truck and put them arbitrarily and a new truck does not in fact come out the other side
how do the pieces fit together? Science not only does not know, but is fully incapable of answering
???for it is something entirely outside the scope of reductionism (which studies the parts, so intrinsically it is not about how the whole functions?)???

identification with the wrong thing can lead to Problems, like trying to edit the plant instead of realizing that you're not the plant, you are the whole field and what you grow in it can change massively, you can tear down things! You can replace! You can compost and grow anew!

MAN JUST APES THE PARTS WITHOUT UNDERSTANDING THE WHOLE

inbreath and outbreath, how something has to be let go before taking back in, how emptiness is a precursor of being filled
the flow, the flow, the flow
and really, really learning to appreciate any and all of our outputs and valuing them and valorizing them
someone else is gonna sing until she's you!



going away from teh bad mental place
idea of just staying in place and prettying it up, but there's only so much cleaning you can to do a drainage pipe. Sometimes the root problems are bigger than staying in place can solve, and it's time to move. Sometimes one has to just leave
so it's different to integrate psychedelics because they involve not just small gradual changes but clean breaks

hunger felt inside for growth, change, because we babies emotionally, but we've taken to chasing the wrong things for it, indefinitely! like power and money
the circle of satisfaction has become the straight line of dissatisfaction

grief as a process of letting go, readjustment to consensual reality, as means of provoking emotional high-energy states so to readapt
that high-energy thread I posted!

If I were you I'd split in two 
OH BOY, an essay on this alone could be written
magic as self-transformation but in few places put in such a shamelessly provocative and evocative way
what I've posted to cadey
	Twi10/08/2020
	wow you can really tell that If I Were You song came from the other side
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	right????
	like, it's got the signature all over. Deep magic
	Twi10/08/2020
	not to mention the like
	calm sense of urgency
	and those other heavenly paradoxes
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	oooh that's a nice way of putting it
	mm yeah, paradoxes. Also the reframings
	like, the way reality is treated as very plastic
	man I could write an essay on this song
	Twi10/08/2020
	you should
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	also the unapologetic call to death and rebirth
	Twi10/08/2020
	I’d sing until I’m someone else—’cause stoic or seducer,
	Someone else is gonna sing until she’s you
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	like, the sheer radiating shamelessness of this piece
	like, this is one way you can really tell
	that this comes from either a mystic or from the Other Side
	there's no deviation in this piece, no stuttering
	it's just one concept being worked on without stops or turns
	there's no mental noise involved in the making of this
	it's one single thought expanded to fit a song
	Twi10/08/2020
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	uhuhuhu~
	Twi10/08/2020
	linked them Etherwood
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	it's like, I could call it a purity of execution
	ohoho, that's gonna be a trip
	Twi10/08/2020
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	and also like, that part you quoted is, wow. Multiverse theory and progressing through lines of experience in this space of all-existence
	like, this falls under Understanding of the 6HV
	Twi10/08/2020
	If I were you I’d split in two
	I’d break on through I’d wake up feeling fine
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	the part where the time-shift can be seen as this progression towards the Creator of which different people/entities are living different parts
	kind of like tracing a line in the space of the paper
	and while I'm not sure if some lines could cross, they could at least inevitably get very very close
	and this progress through the line as singing oneself into someone else, with someone else still trailing behind your path, really sells this, dayum
	but yeah the album art is a Banger
	Twi10/08/2020
	higher res:
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	also, inevitable WMM
		One day,
		when I curl away inside myself
		I will dream of you
		this flesh-covered-bone of animal.
		I will yearn to know your life again.
		I will reach out to you
		as you now reach out to me.
		Such magic!
		Glory to covet the unknown!
	like, as the context for the song
	like, this song really does speak of a yearning to taste again, doesn't it
	the bitter fruit of Time
	as Mckenna termed it
	Twi10/08/2020
	i think i undrestand "from the lesser to the greater and back again to begin another cycle" a lot more now
	but not mentally
	CelestialBoon10/08/2020
	ha
	oh I see, the "bitter fruit of Time" comes from An African Elegy apparently
		We are the miracles that God made
		To taste the bitter fruit of Time.
		We are precious.
		And one day our suffering
		Will turn into the wonders of the earth.

		There are things that burn me now
		Which turn golden when I am happy.
		Do you see the mystery of our pain?
		That we bear poverty
		And are able to sing and dream sweet things

		And that we never curse the air when it is warm
		Or the fruit when it tastes so good
		Or the lights that bounce gently on the waters?
		We bless things even in our pain.
		We bless them in silence.

		That is why our music is so sweet.
		It makes the air remember.
		There are secret miracles at work
		That only Time will bring forth.
		I too have heard the dead singing.

		And they tell me that
		This life is good
		They tell me to live it gently
		With fire, and always with hope.
		There is wonder here

		And there is surprise
		In everything the unseen moves.
		The ocean is full of songs.
		The sky is not an enemy.
		Destiny is our friend.
	Twi10/08/2020
	is this kind of intuitive nowness what the sovereign integral state of consciousness is about?
	like
	i think i'm having an unlanguageable kind of thought

accepting the losing behind, and realizing that it is a positive to the world too
we as a culture through our fear of death, fear of loss, have interrupted the cycle
we bury our bodies where nature can't touch them, we take our shits and throw them into the sea, we try and avoid all possible closures of the cycle and instead take and not give where it's useful again. It's consumption without restitution. It's an open cycle which does not engender sustainability
Trying to straighten out the circle, and ending up breaking it. Living forever, extracting resources out of the Earth without care for sustainability or restitution, fear of death etc. all stem from the same base cause of having lost sight of the natural cycles of the Tao (which itself is the noblest definition of Nature)
one man's trash is another man's treasure
the idea that something bad for you is good for something else
artists that see so much bad in their creations but people love them
the idea that it's always gonna be shit, but shit is something excellent anyway
the idea that our creations, all our creations, have value, that we are truly a transformative process that both keeps the cycles going but also uplifts stuff
nurturance of life? probably something to quote here from Ph1

magic as the bringing of Change in accordance to Will
but the real change is the change in self, since as within, so without
the real journey is in having new eyes
and magic is taking the change back into your own hands
and also the Tao, with the flow of life and the following the cycles of change
(possible opening to quote more of the Tao Te Ching here)
sight as looking forward, into the future as one walks, naturally oriented towards the future and iterating on self-creation, and not caring for the past (what we have left behind), the eyes are forward-placed!
EYES ON THE PRIZE as you move

something above doing magic that is BEING magic
the Self-Master, the Alchemist, the Magician
embodying the Divine and not just weilding it
the fusing of the human and the divine in the merging of wills
acceptance, flow, living by desires, nothing has to be Done but only Lived

the cycles of nature that aren't really cycles
nature is never the same but rhymes (like history)
the spiral movement
cycles within cycles that always bring something new
closing the circle and moving on, restarting the engine, clearing the way and moving forward into change
we have always sought stability, but in losing connection to Nature we have lost sight of the natural cycles and tried to invent our own stability which has left us profoundly astray and lonely and disenfranchised and worse off
fundamental distrust in nature, its direction and purpose, and our desire to be of service, of purpose, goes unhinged from being disconnected from the basis of Nature upon which we rest

the way of nature of survival, which is paradoxical as stability within becoming. A stable becoming
repetition inside evolution (the more things change, the more they stay the same), and evolution inside repetition (the way evolution still brings out self-sustaining and self-propagating units. Self-perpetuating)

death and rebirth? catastrophic event of leaving behind and being transformed
like the usual change but compressed
special occasions usually catch up on the leftover natural progress, like a plant which builds up and then bounces up or something
there is a very definite natural progression, specifically for the formative/growing (!) years, which is a schedule that stays frozen until the good conditions to develop

love as time travel (WMM)?
dream of future self? bring it into existence etc.
I'd make a new design
taking matters into own hands, playing around with our own self

coming to know and understand yourself meaning knowing what step you are on right now, which makes the moving into the next all the more natural and effortless. The work of knowing yourself facilitates transformation into something yet more, but even so these don't have to be separate steps; with enough awareness, one can be aware of the transformation as it is happening, just like one doesn't have to stop in the middle of a dance to know their pose/position if they're paying enough attention.

sometimes the future calls backward to its past, which is the present
gotta heed the inspiration

this change happens at various levels. Learning is already changing of a sort
the deeper the change, especially of established patterns, and the higher the resistance, the deeper work must be engendered, the higher the energy state -> magic, psychedelics, high meditation states etc.
but cultivating Zen is non-resistance, non-opposition, non-doing, so there's nothing that is opposing, so there is only right action, right becoming through behaviour (action + habit) 

fear of the unknown, and how am I guaranteed that I will still love myself if I change? this needs to confront ourselves with something innately beyond the scope of the Known, for true change is always a dive into the Unknown
confronting the fear of the Unknown: that shamanic dance in the waterfall quote from TMK
also confronting something that is beneath existence
which is an excellent question, and for that the answer I've found is that love, the purest, most unconditional love, exists before any form, any thought, any experience or any event. It 
To realize/remember/experience this yourself, this takes a substantially altered state of consciousness from normal baseline, which can be achieved through the usual suspects (techniques of meditation, yoga, or psychedelics/entactogens)