SELF AS ENVIRONMENT
active imagination in Jung as means of exploring this wild landscape
that he actually met figures in etc.
plurality as way to explore this landscape and familiarize figures in it

natural farming as the right framework to approach the mind as well
	> As the land gets closer and closer to its original form, the mind of the farmer also finds its way back to its original state.
excellent dispenser of metahpors
trattare il paesaggio mentale in modo naturale. Questo vuol dire

examples of the natives who cultivated the forest in such a careful and elegant way that the colonizers couldn't tell it apart from wild land
the natives have no word for wild, just uncultured, unattended

man has warped the environment in specific ways that become self-perpetuating or accomodating, like the woods of Japan had become dependent on man to caretake for it since that's what man was doing. Which can be an excellent thing! It means man has a place in Nature, but it can quickly be overstepped and especially man can end up taking a lot more on thier shoulders than is strictly necessary (high-maintenance mental space)
to change things it's not only necessary to realize the error (so to stop doing the wrong thing), but also to change things it's often necessary to make reparations and give nature the tools to once again shift to a more self-sustained sort of cycle, which can mean eg. providing the seeds so that nature can sort itself out, or even providing initial help to nurture the new efforts so that they aren't smothered and can grow to adulthood and non-fragile self-reproducing existence

the figure of man as steward of the land, as the expressor of a Bigger way, the Tao, Nature etc. but doing so with a more direct channel to the Divine, so able to bring a vision in faster terms? 

My experience: introducing the idea of pleasant voice and letting it grow gradually up to a pleasant mind space/room
repara

dream as place in the mind to visit
self of self dissolving in it because you can be anything in the dream. the Everything is conscious so nothing in itself is. It's a scene exploration and it's freeform
relaxed identification rules, just space of raw experience

red book passages
	E: "Will you therefore confuse yourself with a tree or animal, because you look at them and because you exist with them in one and the same world? Must you be your thoughts, because you are in the world of your thoughts? But your thoughts are just as much outside your self as trees and animals are outside your body."
	I: "I understand. My thought world was for me more word than world. I thought of my thought world: it is I." 
	E: "Do you say to your human world and every being outside of you: you are I?" 

	My thoughts are not my self but exactly like the things of the world, alive and dead. Just as I am not damaged through living in a partly chaotic world, so too I am not damaged if I live in my partly chaotic thought world. Thoughts are natural events that you do not possess, and whose meaning you only imperfectly recognize. Thoughts grow in me like a forest, populated by many different animals. But man is domineering in his thinking, and therefore he kills the pleasure of the forest and that of the wild animals. Man is violent in his desire, and he himself becomes a forest and a forest animal. Just as I have freedom in the world, I also have freedom in my thoughts. Freedom is conditional.












